docs/tutorials/converters.ooxml2cals.rst, before:

OOXML to CALS converter
=======================

Description
-----------

.. _Office Open XML File Formats: https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-376.htm
.. _CALS table format: https://www.oasis-open.org/specs/a502.htm


The :func:`~benker.converters.ooxml2cals.convert_ooxml2cals` converter is a function designed to convert tables from an Office Open XML (OOXML) document (which respects the schema defined in `Office Open XML File Formats`_) in the `CALS table format`_.

The conversion is done in the source XML document by replacing the tables of the OOXML format with those transformed in the CALS format.
In other words, the general structure of the source XML document is retained except for tables.

The :class:`~benker.converters.ooxml2cals.Ooxml2CalsConverter` converter is composed of:

*   a :class:`~benker.parsers.ooxml.OoxmlParser` parser that allows you to parse tables in OOXML format,

    The tutorial :ref:`benker__parsers__ooxml` describes the usage of this parser and gives some examples.

*   a :class:`~benker.builders.cals.CalsBuilder` builder that allows you to build tables in the CALS format.

    The tutorial :ref:`benker__builders__cals` describes the usage of this builder and gives some examples.

Conversion options
------------------

The tables parsing and building can be parameterized using the options described below:

**Common parsing options:**

``encoding`` (default: "utf-8"):
    XML encoding of the destination file.

**OOXML parser options:**

``styles_path`` (default: ``None``):
    Path to the stylesheet to use to resole table styles.
    In an uncompressed ``.docx`` tree structure, the stylesheet path
    is ``word/styles.xml``.

**CALS builder options:**

``cals_ns`` (default: ``None``):
    Namespace to use for CALS-like elements and attributes to generate.
    Set ``None`` (or "") if you don't want to use namespace.

``cals_prefix`` (default: ``None``):
    Namespace prefix to use for CALS-like elements and attributes to generate.

``width_unit`` (default: "mm"):
    Unit to use for column widths.
    Possible values are: 'cm', 'dm', 'ft', 'in', 'm', 'mm', 'pc', 'pt', 'px'.

``table_in_tgroup`` (default: ``False``):
    Where should we put the table properties:

    -   ``False`` to insert the attributes ``@colsep``, ``@rowsep``,
        and ``@tabstyle`` in the ``<table>`` element,

    -   ``True`` to insert the attributes ``@colsep``, ``@rowsep``,
        and ``@tgroupstyle`` in the ``<tgroup>`` element.

Examples of conversions
-----------------------

Commit message:

Improve the documentation and add the *tgroup_sorting* option in the CALS builder: The option *tgroup_sorting* can be used to sort the ``thead``, ``tbody`` and ``tfoot`` elements.

docs/tutorials/converters.ooxml2cals.rst, after:

.. _benker__converters__ooxml__cals:

OOXML to CALS converter
=======================

Description
-----------

.. _Office Open XML File Formats: https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-376.htm
.. _CALS table format: https://www.oasis-open.org/specs/a502.htm


The :func:`~benker.converters.ooxml2cals.convert_ooxml2cals` converter is a function designed to convert tables from an Office Open XML (OOXML) document (which respects the schema defined in `Office Open XML File Formats`_) in the `CALS table format`_.

The conversion is done in the source XML document by replacing the tables of the OOXML format with those transformed in the CALS format.
In other words, the general structure of the source XML document is retained except for tables.

The :class:`~benker.converters.ooxml2cals.Ooxml2CalsConverter` converter is composed of:

*   a :class:`~benker.parsers.ooxml.OoxmlParser` parser that allows you to parse tables in OOXML format,

    The tutorial :ref:`benker__parsers__ooxml` describes the usage of this parser and gives some examples.

*   a :class:`~benker.builders.cals.CalsBuilder` builder that allows you to build tables in the CALS format.

    The tutorial :ref:`benker__builders__cals` describes the usage of this builder and gives some examples.

Conversion options
------------------

The tables parsing and building can be parameterized using the options described below:

**Common parsing options:**

``encoding`` (default: "utf-8"):
    XML encoding of the destination file.

**OOXML parser options:**

``styles_path`` (default: ``None``):
    Path to the stylesheet to use to resole table styles.
    In an uncompressed ``.docx`` tree structure, the stylesheet path
    is ``word/styles.xml``.

**CALS builder options:**

``cals_ns`` (default: ``None``):
    Namespace to use for CALS-like elements and attributes to generate.
    Set ``None`` (or "") if you don't want to use namespace.

``cals_prefix`` (default: ``None``):
    Namespace prefix to use for CALS-like elements and attributes to generate.

``width_unit`` (default: "mm"):
    Unit to use for column widths.
    Possible values are: 'cm', 'dm', 'ft', 'in', 'm', 'mm', 'pc', 'pt', 'px'.

``table_in_tgroup`` (default: ``False``):
    Where should we put the table properties:

    -   ``False`` to insert the attributes ``@colsep``, ``@rowsep``,
        and ``@tabstyle`` in the ``<table>`` element,

    -   ``True`` to insert the attributes ``@colsep``, ``@rowsep``,
        and ``@tgroupstyle`` in the ``<tgroup>`` element.


``tgroup_sorting`` (default: ``["header", "footer", "body"]``):
    List used to sort (and group) the rows in a ``tgroup``.
    The sorting is done according to the row natures
    which is by default: ``["header", "footer", "body"]``
    (this order match the CALS DTD defaults,
    where the footer is between the header and the body.
    To move the footer to the end, you can use ``["header", "body", "footer"]``.

Examples of conversions
-----------------------
