docs/tutorials/styled.rst, before:

.. _benker__styled:

Styled
======

Description
-----------

A :class:`~benker.styled.Styled` object contains a dictionary of styles.

It is mainly used for :class:`~benker.table.Table`, :class:`~benker.table.RowView`,
:class:`~benker.table.ColView`, and :class:`~benker.cell.Cell`.


.. doctest:: styled

    >>> from benker.styled import Styled

    >>> styled = Styled({'text-align': 'justify'}, "body")

The representation of a styled is the representation of its dictionary of styles:

.. doctest:: styled

    >>> print(styled)
    {'text-align': 'justify'}


Attributes
----------

A :class:`~benker.styled.Styled` object has the following attribute:

-   *styles* is the user-defined styles: a dictionary of key-value pairs.
    This values are useful to store some HTML-like styles (border-style,
    border-width, border-color, vertical-align, text-align, etc.).
    Of course, we are not tied to the HTML-like styles, you can use your own
    styles list.

    .. note::

        The style dictionary is always copied: in other words, key-value pairs
        are copied but a shallow copy is done for the values (in general, it
        is not a problem if you use non-mutable values like :class:`str`).

-   *cell_group*: a way to distinguish the body cells,
    from the header and the footer. The default value is "body", but you can
    use "header", "footer" or whatever is suitable for your needs.
    This kind of information is in general not stored in the styles,
    even if it is similar.

    .. note::

        In a :class:`~benker.grid.Grid`, the :ref:`merging <benker__grid__merging>`
        of two cell groups is done by keeping the first cell group and
        dropping the second one. In other words, the resulting cell group is
        the group of the most top-left cell group of the merged cells.

Example of *styles* initialisation and shallow copy:

.. doctest:: styled

    >>> css =  { 'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '5px'}

    >>> one = Styled(css, "body")
    >>> one.styles['border-width'] = '2px 10px 4px 20px'
    >>> two = Styled(one.styles, "body")
    >>> two.styles['border-width'] = 'medium'

    >>> css
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '5px'}

    >>> one.styles
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '2px 10px 4px 20px'}

    >>> two.styles
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': 'medium'}

Commit message:

Refactoring: replace *cell_group* by *nature*.

docs/tutorials/styled.rst, after:

.. _benker__styled:

Styled
======

Description
-----------

A :class:`~benker.styled.Styled` object contains a dictionary of styles.

It is mainly used for :class:`~benker.table.Table`, :class:`~benker.table.RowView`,
:class:`~benker.table.ColView`, and :class:`~benker.cell.Cell`.


.. doctest:: styled

    >>> from benker.styled import Styled

    >>> styled = Styled({'text-align': 'justify'}, "body")

The representation of a styled is the representation of its dictionary of styles:

.. doctest:: styled

    >>> print(styled)
    {'text-align': 'justify'}


Attributes
----------

A :class:`~benker.styled.Styled` object has the following attribute:

-   *styles* is the user-defined styles: a dictionary of key-value pairs.
    This values are useful to store some HTML-like styles (border-style,
    border-width, border-color, vertical-align, text-align, etc.).
    Of course, we are not tied to the HTML-like styles, you can use your own
    styles list.

    .. note::

        The style dictionary is always copied: in other words, key-value pairs
        are copied but a shallow copy is done for the values (in general, it
        is not a problem if you use non-mutable values like :class:`str`).

-   *nature*: a way to distinguish the body cells,
    from the header and the footer. The default value is "body", but you can
    use "header", "footer" or whatever is suitable for your needs.
    This kind of information is in general not stored in the styles,
    even if it is similar.

    .. note::

        In a :class:`~benker.grid.Grid`, the :ref:`merging <benker__grid__merging>`
        of two natures is done by keeping the first nature and
        dropping the second one. In other words, the resulting nature is
        the group of the most top-left nature of the merged cells.

Example of *styles* initialisation and shallow copy:

.. doctest:: styled

    >>> css =  { 'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '5px'}

    >>> one = Styled(css, "body")
    >>> one.styles['border-width'] = '2px 10px 4px 20px'
    >>> two = Styled(one.styles, "body")
    >>> two.styles['border-width'] = 'medium'

    >>> css
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '5px'}

    >>> one.styles
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': '2px 10px 4px 20px'}

    >>> two.styles
    {'border-style': 'solid', 'border-width': 'medium'}
